----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------

OVERALL EVALUATION: 2 (accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 5 (expert)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This position paper focuses on what kinds of interaction techniques are suitable for visualizations of 3D data when presenting to an audience. It emphasizes that interactions suitable for presentation purposes could be quite different from those ideal for data exploration.

The paper is very well written and makes some interesting points. I think that it could be quite a useful reference for people who are new to designing for presentation purposes, and also provides some interesting insights for those who are experienced in this area. Presentation is an important task for visualization and one that is sometimes neglected; it is therefore worth talking about and I’d like to see this work included.

My only hesitation is that this work isn’t really about 3D visualization or its value per se, so its fit with the workshop is tangential. However, it does focus on scenarios involving 3D data and brings a different and valuable perspective. Having these authors contribute to the workshop will probably be beneficial.

Other points:
- in voice control, a system that can automatically distinguish between commands intended for the computer and normal speech intended for the audience would be really useful here.

Typos:
- “This change the fact that” in intro (actually whole sentence is awkward)
- section 4: the presenters >> the presenter’s
- section 4: “interaction techniques that involves” >> involve


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------

OVERALL EVALUATION: 2 (accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This position paper argues that the suitability and expressivity of a specific interaction method depends significantly on the screen sizes and the audience sizes. The paper first describes various contexts for a presentation (using a workstation, in exhibition area, in an auditorium), before deriving classes of interaction techniques (Direct Touch Interaction, Registered and Unregistered Touchless Interaction, Voice Control).

These classifications lead to Figure 6 which intends to guide a presenter in selecting the best interaction technique for the intended audience, in a given environment or interaction scenario. This is the main point of this paper and it is well presented. The description of the interactions techniques are well structured while the descriptions of the various scenarios could have been a bit more extensive.

This contribution is perhaps not as much about if "3D really make sense for Data Visualization?" but rather about "sharing thoughts" on the underlying communication and interaction techniques one can use while presenting. As a position paper, it presents an interesting point of view, albeit not quite as controversial as it could have been: everyone will probably agree on the diagrams presented in Figure 6. It could have been interesting to discuss a few combinations of various interaction technique and scenario. (What happens if I use a iPhone for presenting in an auditorium?) It also would have been good to list more possible contexts within each scenario. (In "Presentations in an Auditorium", only the Dome is covered. What if one is using a CAVE-like or other environment?) Nonetheless, the proposed classification is well illustrated by the diagrams of Figure 6 and the thoughts presented in this paper are certainly worth sharing as they may open some floor discussions on in!
 teraction techniques within the workshop assistance.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------

OVERALL EVALUATION: 0 (borderline paper) 
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 5 (expert)

----------- REVIEW -----------
The authors discuss different presentation scenarios of visualizations using a variety of interaction means.

Related work:
o it may be useful to also cite a survey on the use of interactive surfaces for visualization: P. Isenberg & T. Isenberg. Visualization on Interactive Surfaces: A Research Overview. i-com, 12(3):10–17, 2013. (doi: 10.1524/icom.2013.0020) o for a nice combination of ideas from touchless interaction and direct-touch control see H. Benko & A. D. Wilson. Multi-Point Interactions with Immersive Omnidirectional Visualizations in a Dome. In Proc. ITS, p. 19--28, 2010. (doi: 10.1145/1936652.1936657)

With respect to touch interaction, I know from own experience of visiting other labs that it is also explored in the context of auditorium presentations, even if not many publications exist yet. Of course, the authors are correct about the challenges of presenting visualizations by means of touch interaction to larger audiences. Nevertheless, it is not always true that "both the audience and the presenter are at a physical distance from the projection surface"---sometimes the presenter can be in close proximity to the presentation screen and thus control it using touch.

With respect to touchless interaction, see Benko and Wilson's [2010] paper for an example of registered gestures that are performed far from the projection screen. This paper is also a nice example of physically creating a proxy that visualizes the interaction input.

Generally, in Sections 1--3 the authors set the stage of the discussion, Section 2 introducing the presentation scenarios and Section 3 discussing the respective interaction platforms (touch, touchless, voice control). Section 4 now contains the actual contribution: a classification of when each interaction platform is applicable (based on audience size and screen size) and when each scenario is applicable (also based on audience size and screen size). Unfortunately, the authors do not explain how they derived these mappings and why there should be an exclusive mapping as suggested by Figure 6. Are these observations? Are these recommendations? If the latter, based on what reasoning? Moreover, based on my observations reported above I think that the mapping, in particular in Figure 6(a), is not entirely correct (is not the only truth). I believe that the obvious lack of discussion is a major shortcoming of the submission, as the discussion when each platform and scenario wor!
 ks and why seems to the core of the authors' contribution.

If the authors can extend Section 4 to explain their reasoning then I would be inclined to rate this position paper favorably, currently I am neutral with a tendency toward the negative. 

Low-level points:
o The use of commas should be revisited, for example by getting help from a a native/fluent speaker of English or by consulting style guide.
o Misspelled word: perceptive -> perspective o Please use proper quotation marks (66quoted text99), single quotation marks (6quoted text9), and apostrophes (Smith9s paper).
o Please use proper range dashes (n-dash without leading or trailing spaces: 1--10).
o At the start of the abstract there should not be a space between the dash and the first word of the abstract. Please remove any unintentional newline or space character before the first word of the abstract.
o Several issues in the sentence "This change the fact that mouse and keyboard is not the paradigm used as the main type of interaction in all kinds of scenarios and allows us to analyze how interactions affect a presentation."
o Consistently capitalize "Scenario 2.3".
o list of references: "Etats-Unis" is French

References and citing:
o Please sort references according to their numeric order, e.g., "[21, 7, 1, 32]" -> "[1, 7, 21, 32]"
o The abbreviation of journal names or the proceedings book titles is inconsistent, some are abbreviated, others are not abbreviated.
o The name of journals/proceedings in the list of references uses reversed forms such as "Visualization and Computer Graphics, IEEE Transactions on". Please correct these to the proper names (i.e., "IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics"); generally not blindly believe the bibliographic entries from digital libraries.
o Author is misspelled in the list of references: K. O'Hara o Proper names of people or systems or other named entities as well as most acronyms need to be capitalized in paper titles: 3D, 2D, NUI, VR, WIM

Some recommendations to gain space:
o Space can easily be gained by shortening proceedings names into "Proc. SIGGRAPH"/"Proc. CHI"/"Proc. PacificVis" or similar, also removing the editions/dates/locations of the respective conferences where present in the proceedings (booktitle) name.
o For each entry in the list of references it is only necessary to mention the year once. For example, it is not necessary to refer to "Proc. CONF 2010" if the entry again list 2010 as the year the paper was published---in this case simply refer to "Proc. CONF".
o Space can easily be gained by removing long forms of well-known cities. For example, it can probably safely be assumed that most people know (or can figure out) that New York is in the State of New York which again is located in the United States.
o Space can sometimes also be gained by employing microtypography in the typesetting (which also makes texts easier to read). In LaTeX this can easily be achieved by using either "\usepackage{microtype}" or "\usepackage[activate=normal]{pdfcprot}" in the praeamble.
o Space can easily be gained by re-wording sentences in those paragraphs that end with a single word or two on the last line (orphans).


----------------------- REVIEW 4 ---------------------

OVERALL EVALUATION: 2 (accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This position paper refreshingly directs the reader's attention to "audience usability", a rarely studied aspect of visualization usage. The authors make a strong argument that this aspect deserves more attention and suggest a classification scheme to investigate in how far different interaction techniques such as touch or mid-air interaction are applicable to different environments and audience sizes. The authors' analysis and classification is based on their experience and observations. My main critique is that the authors could have stressed that their analysis is based on current practices and that (many) studies will be necessary to disentangle the complex relationships between the involved mentioned factors as well as additional ones, such as the complexity of an operation and the interaction technique used to perform it, or how different interaction techniques might affect memorability of insights.

Overall, the authors address a relevant aspect of 3D visualization and I believe this position paper will be of interest for the workshop audience.
